faq.md, before:

---
title: FAQ
description: Common questions answered
class: text-container docs
---

## Table of contents
1. [Documentation](#documentation)
2. [Bugs and suggestions](#bugs-and-suggestions)
3. [Subscriptions](#subscriptions)
4. [Lost license key](#lost-license-key)
5. [Cancel subscription](#cancel-subscription)
6. [Refunds](#refunds)
7. [Can't afford JustSketchMe?](#cant-afford-justsketchme)
8. [Educational institutions](#educational-institutions)
9. [Other questions](#other-questions)

---

## Documentation

For detailed documentation on how to use JustSketchMe use the [docs](/docs/).

---

## Bugs and suggestions

If you encounter any bugs, please send us an email at [hello@justsketch.me](mailto:hello@justsketch.me) with the following:
- Description of problem
- Steps to recreate
- Operating system (iOS, Windows, Mac, etc)

If you'd like to suggest a feature, you do so [here](https://justsketchme.nolt.io).

---

## Subscriptions 

Subscriptions to [JustSketchMe Pro](https://gum.co/justsketchme) are on a periodic license where you will be billed according to the license period you choose. There is also a [one-time payment option](https://gum.co/justsketchme-lifetime/).

You will be issued a license key after payment (it will also be emailed to you).
You can then copy and paste the key into the app to activate all the features in the app.

The same license key can be used on all of your devices.
All devices using the same license key will share saved poses and scenes.

---

## Lost license key

Your license key should be in an email sent to you by Gumroad. Try searching your inbox for an email from them. It should also be available in your [Gumroad library](https://gumroad.com/library/). If you still can't find it, send an email to [hello@justsketch.me](mailto:hello@justsketch.me).

---

## Cancel subscription

There are 2 ways to cancel your subscription.
- At the bottom of your receipt email is a link titled "Manage subscription". Clicking that will give you the option of cancelling your license.
- You can also cancel the subscription from within your [Gumroad library](https://gumroad.com/library/).

---

## Refunds

If you are in any way disatisfied with JustSketchMe Pro, send us an email with your issue and we'd be happy to offer you a full refund. 

---

## Can't afford JustSketchMe?

We're trying our best to make JustSketchMe available to everyone.
<a href="/cant-afford/">More info.</a>

---

## Educational institutions

We love working with educational institutions! Send an email to <a href="mailto:hello@justsketch.me">hello@justsketch.me</a> with your details and we'll get back to you with a free educator license.

---

### Other questions

If you have other questions you can email us at <a href="mailto:hello@justsketch.me">hello@justsketch.me</a>.

Commit message:

Added bugs board to FAQ

faq.md, after:

---
title: FAQ
description: Common questions answered
class: text-container docs
---

## Table of contents
1. [Documentation](#documentation)
2. [Bugs and feature suggestions](#bugs-and-feature-suggestions)
3. [Subscriptions](#subscriptions)
4. [Lost license key](#lost-license-key)
5. [Cancel subscription](#cancel-subscription)
6. [Refunds](#refunds)
7. [Can't afford JustSketchMe?](#cant-afford-justsketchme)
8. [Educational institutions](#educational-institutions)
9. [Other questions](#other-questions)

---

## Documentation

For detailed documentation on how to use JustSketchMe check out the [docs](/docs/).

---

## Bugs and feature suggestions

If you encounter any bugs, please report them on our [bug board](https://forms.gle/q9emuvjXh6ciQcGS9)

If you'd like to suggest a feature, you do so on our [feature board](https://justsketchme.nolt.io).

---

## Subscriptions 

Subscriptions to [JustSketchMe Pro](https://gum.co/justsketchme) are on a periodic license where you will be billed according to the license period you choose. There is also a [one-time payment option](https://gum.co/justsketchme-lifetime/).

You will be issued a license key after payment (it will also be emailed to you).
You can then copy and paste the key into the app to activate all the features in the app.

The same license key can be used on all of your devices.
All devices using the same license key will share saved poses and scenes.

---

## Lost license key

Your license key should be in an email sent to you by Gumroad. Try searching your inbox for an email from them. It should also be available in your [Gumroad library](https://gumroad.com/library/). If you still can't find it, send an email to [hello@justsketch.me](mailto:hello@justsketch.me).

---

## Cancel subscription

There are 2 ways to cancel your subscription.
- At the bottom of your receipt email is a link titled "Manage subscription". Clicking that will give you the option of cancelling your license.
- You can also cancel the subscription from within your [Gumroad library](https://gumroad.com/library/).

---

## Refunds

If you are in any way disatisfied with JustSketchMe Pro, send us an email with your issue and we'd be happy to offer you a full refund. 

---

## Can't afford JustSketchMe?

We're trying our best to make JustSketchMe available to everyone.
<a href="/cant-afford/">More info.</a>

---

## Educational institutions

We love working with educational institutions! Send an email to <a href="mailto:hello@justsketch.me">hello@justsketch.me</a> with your details and we'll get back to you with a free educator license.

---

### Other questions

If you have other questions you can email us at <a href="mailto:hello@justsketch.me">hello@justsketch.me</a>.
