neat.md, before:

---
title: Things we think you'd like!
permalink: "/neat/"
description: 'Explore the www and let us be your tour guides. '
image: "/images/screenshots/moved.png"
published: false

---
Henlo frenz, 

Herman, Simon and Dante here. 

Here's our collective list of things we like and think you might too. 

If you have anything to add or suggest, please drop us a [mail](dante@justsketch.me). 

### Things to watch

![](/uploads/dd9w1w9-65452fbb-3ee0-487d-9177-9199c3f83fa1.jpeg)[Drawfee]()

Four friends get together and draw whack things. It really is that simple and also completely not! A wonderful way to spend your time and something truly worthy of your attention, Drawfee is fun, funny and super inspirational to artists everywhere. It's also, as they say, people turning dumb ideas into dumb drawings and... that just sounds really good.

![](/uploads/channels4_banner.jpeg)

[Thor High Heels](https://www.youtube.com/user/ThorHighHeels) 

Ever wondered what happened to the games of yesteryear forgotten by time and corporate greed? Thor High Heels has truly got you covered. From looks into the libraries of long lost consoles to explorations of your favourite publishers' forgotten games, this channel is a must. 

![](/uploads/maxresdefault.jpeg)

[The Sphere Hunter]()

Speaking of video games, Suzi Hunter of Sphere Hunter fame has got to be one of the best gamers on the ol' Youtube. She does reviews, yes, but she also waxes poetic on her favourite games and does a great job of setting the mood and tone of her videos to the games she's talking about, giving people a double whammy introduction that is as fun as it is informative.

### Things to learn

justsketch.me/learn

![](/uploads/63565101.png)

[Kurzgesagt](https://www.youtube.com/user/Kurzgesagt)

Got a question about...well, anything? You're probably gonna find the answer here and have a good time doing it.

![](/uploads/screenshot-2021-05-03-at-12-31-48.png)

[CarzSays](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCR427OqwOrf_APbG8oIP14A)

Our regular contributor and super skilled artist Carolina Alvarez is one to watch. Expert skills and hacks and a super great aesthetic is to be found here. Her [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CarlzSays) is a pretty fun place too.

### Things to play

![](/uploads/collections-1x.png)

[Itch](itch.io)

Play cool, little games. 'Nuff said.

[Mythical Creature Generator](https://www.generatormix.com/mythical-creatures-generator)

This site generates random creatures that you probably didn't think of. Great to use as a prompt for drawing or for populating your D&D games with scary nasties. 

[Character Generator](https://www.character-generator.org.uk/)

If you're a writer and you're in need of flexing your muscles, head  here and get a fresh character to use as a jumping-off point for your next scribe session.

### Things to use

![](/uploads/11-droz-brushes-gimp.jpeg)

darek zabrocki brushes

![](/uploads/d5tmmhk-c8848b23-33b4-41fd-8968-57559cf6d5eb.jpeg)

rezkhan brushes

![](/uploads/d779u6q-1c1a07b7-825d-48f0-8fee-7c0131d8ef64.jpeg)

deharme

### Things to read

[http://dresdencodak.com/](http://dresdencodak.com/ "http://dresdencodak.com/")

[https://dinosandcomics.com/](https://dinosandcomics.com/ "https://dinosandcomics.com/")

Saturday am

### Artists we love (and love to work with)

snacktoast

Carolina alvarez

eyuki leaf

the spidey bugle

alida loubser

marlize eckard

betsy doodles

mio mio doodles

jey odin

fong fu master

Commit message:

Update from Forestry.io Herman Martinus updated neat.md Herman Martinus created uploads/screenshot-2021-05-04-at-13-37-58.png

neat.md, after:

---
title: Things we think you'd like!
permalink: "/neat/"
description: 'Explore the www and let us be your tour guides. '
image: "/images/screenshots/moved.png"
published: false

---
Henlo frenz, 

Herman, Simon and Dante here. 

Here's our collective list of things we like and think you might too. 

If you have anything to add or suggest, please drop us a [mail](dante@justsketch.me). 

### Things to watch

![](/uploads/dd9w1w9-65452fbb-3ee0-487d-9177-9199c3f83fa1.jpeg)[Drawfee]()

Four friends get together and draw whack things. It really is that simple and also completely not! A wonderful way to spend your time and something truly worthy of your attention, Drawfee is fun, funny and super inspirational to artists everywhere. It's also, as they say, people turning dumb ideas into dumb drawings and... that just sounds really good.

![](/uploads/channels4_banner.jpeg)

[Thor High Heels](https://www.youtube.com/user/ThorHighHeels) 

Ever wondered what happened to the games of yesteryear forgotten by time and corporate greed? Thor High Heels has truly got you covered. From looks into the libraries of long lost consoles to explorations of your favourite publishers' forgotten games, this channel is a must. 

![](/uploads/maxresdefault.jpeg)

[The Sphere Hunter]()

Speaking of video games, Suzi Hunter of Sphere Hunter fame has got to be one of the best gamers on the ol' Youtube. She does reviews, yes, but she also waxes poetic on her favourite games and does a great job of setting the mood and tone of her videos to the games she's talking about, giving people a double whammy introduction that is as fun as it is informative.

### Things to learn

justsketch.me/learn

![](/uploads/63565101.png)

[Kurzgesagt](https://www.youtube.com/user/Kurzgesagt)

Got a question about...well, anything? You're probably gonna find the answer here and have a good time doing it.

![](/uploads/screenshot-2021-05-03-at-12-31-48.png)

[CarzSays](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCR427OqwOrf_APbG8oIP14A)

Our regular contributor and super skilled artist Carolina Alvarez is one to watch. Expert skills and hacks and a super great aesthetic is to be found here. Her [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CarlzSays) is a pretty fun place too.

### Things to play

![](/uploads/collections-1x.png)

[Itch](itch.io)

Play cool, little games. 'Nuff said.

[Mythical Creature Generator](https://www.generatormix.com/mythical-creatures-generator)

This site generates random creatures that you probably didn't think of. Great to use as a prompt for drawing or for populating your D&D games with scary nasties. 

[Character Generator](https://www.character-generator.org.uk/)

If you're a writer and you're in need of flexing your muscles, head  here and get a fresh character to use as a jumping-off point for your next scribe session.

### Things to use

![](/uploads/11-droz-brushes-gimp.jpeg)

[Darek Zabrocki](https://www.deviantart.com/darekzabrocki/art/FREE-PHOTOSHOP-BRUSHES-DAREK-ZABROCKI-BRUSH-SET-431393487) is a renowned artist in his own right, and his brush selection is reeeeal good too. A nice selection of good things to help you get your handle on brushes. See what we did there.  

![](/uploads/d5tmmhk-c8848b23-33b4-41fd-8968-57559cf6d5eb.jpeg)

If you like painting and blending and doing the swoosh things, these [Rezkhan](https://www.deviantart.com/rezshirmeen/art/RezKhan-Brushes-2013-352095320) brushes are super good for that. 

![](/uploads/d779u6q-1c1a07b7-825d-48f0-8fee-7c0131d8ef64.jpeg)

[Deharme](https://www.deviantart.com/deharme/art/Deharme-BRUSHES-Photoshop-CC-435479570)'s brush has everything you could ever have wanted from a brush set. That's it, that's the tweet. 

### Things to read

[http://dresdencodak.com/](http://dresdencodak.com/ "http://dresdencodak.com/")

[https://dinosandcomics.com/](https://dinosandcomics.com/ "https://dinosandcomics.com/")

Saturday am

### Artists we love (and love to work with)

Hunter Waldera

![](/uploads/ef_pbpxwsaap_o0.jpeg)

Carolina Alvarez

![](/uploads/look-6.png)

Alida Loubser

Eyuki Leaf

![](/uploads/screenshot-2021-05-04-at-13-35-31.png)

The Spidey Bugle

alida loubser

![](/uploads/mikasa-5.png)

Marlize Eckard

![](/uploads/eputnurxmaardrf.jpeg)

betsy doodles

mio mio doodles

![](/uploads/epsdba4xyaarv_a.jpeg)

jey odin

![](/uploads/erviugavcaavmud.jpeg)

Oscar Fong
