terms-of-service.md, before:

---
title: Terms of Service
permalink: /terms-of-service/
class: text-container docs
---

## Terms

By accessing the website at https://justsketch.me, you are agreeing to be bound by these terms of service, all applicable laws and regulations, and agree that you are responsible for compliance with any applicable local laws. If you do not agree with any of these terms, you are prohibited from using or accessing this site. The materials contained in this website are protected by applicable copyright and trademark law.

## Use License

You are allowed to use  https://justsketch.me for creating materials for personal and commercial purposes. You do not need to credit JustSketchMe (but it is always appreciated).

Upon the termination of a license, you will lose access to the full featureset (including saved poses/scenes). We reserve the right to terminate members account at our own discression if we deem it necessary.

## Disclaimer

The materials on https://justsketch.me are provided on an 'as is' basis. JustSketchMe makes no warranties, expressed or implied, and hereby disclaims and negates all other warranties including, without limitation, implied warranties or conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or non-infringement of intellectual property or other violation of rights.
Further, JustSketchMe does not warrant or make any representations concerning the accuracy, likely results, or reliability of the use of the materials on its website or otherwise relating to such materials or on any sites linked to this site.

## Limitations

In no event shall JustSketchMe or its suppliers be liable for any damages (including, without limitation, damages for loss of data or profit, or due to business interruption) arising out of the use or inability to use the materials on https://justsketch.me, even if JustSketchMe authorized representative has been notified orally or in writing of the possibility of such damage. Because some jurisdictions do not allow limitations on implied warranties, or limitations of liability for consequential or incidental damages, these limitations may not apply to you.

## Accuracy of materials

The materials appearing on https://justsketch.me could include technical, typographical, or photographic errors. JustSketchMe does not warrant that any of the materials on its website are accurate, complete or current. JustSketchMe may make changes to the materials contained on its website at any time without notice. However JustSketchMe does not make any commitment to update the materials.

## Modifications

JustSketchMe may revise these terms of service for its website at any time without notice.

Commit message:

copy: t&c lifetime terms and removed submission for gallery

terms-of-service.md, after:

---
title: Terms of Service
permalink: /terms-of-service/
class: text-container docs
---

## Terms

By accessing the website at https://justsketch.me, you are agreeing to be bound by these terms of service, all applicable laws and regulations, and agree that you are responsible for compliance with any applicable local laws. If you do not agree with any of these terms, you are prohibited from using or accessing this site. The materials contained in this website are protected by applicable copyright and trademark law.

## Use License

You are allowed to use  https://justsketch.me for creating materials for personal and commercial purposes. You do not need to credit JustSketchMe (but it is always appreciated).

Upon the termination of a license, you will lose access to the full featureset (including saved poses/scenes). We reserve the right to terminate members account at our own discression if we deem it necessary.

## Disclaimer

The materials on https://justsketch.me are provided on an 'as is' basis. JustSketchMe makes no warranties, expressed or implied, and hereby disclaims and negates all other warranties including, without limitation, implied warranties or conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or non-infringement of intellectual property or other violation of rights. Lifetime licenses are valid for the lifetime of JustSketchMe (Pty) Ltd.

Further, JustSketchMe does not warrant or make any representations concerning the accuracy, likely results, or reliability of the use of the materials on its website or otherwise relating to such materials or on any sites linked to this site.

## Limitations

In no event shall JustSketchMe or its suppliers be liable for any damages (including, without limitation, damages for loss of data or profit, or due to business interruption) arising out of the use or inability to use the materials on https://justsketch.me, even if JustSketchMe authorized representative has been notified orally or in writing of the possibility of such damage. Because some jurisdictions do not allow limitations on implied warranties, or limitations of liability for consequential or incidental damages, these limitations may not apply to you.

## Accuracy of materials

The materials appearing on https://justsketch.me could include technical, typographical, or photographic errors. JustSketchMe does not warrant that any of the materials on its website are accurate, complete or current. JustSketchMe may make changes to the materials contained on its website at any time without notice. However JustSketchMe does not make any commitment to update the materials.

## Modifications

JustSketchMe may revise these terms of service for its website at any time without notice.
